#snapshots 
Walleye pollock (_Gadus chalcogrammus_) are one of the most ecologically and commercially significant fish species in the North Pacific. Distributed from Puget Sound to the northern Bering Sea, they are an abundant, schooling codfish that make up approximately 70% of the groundfish biomass in the Eastern Bering Sea (Bailey, 2000). Pollock are a generalist species occupying a wide range of habitats and depth zones across the Gulf of Alaska (GOA) and Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands (BSAI), with seasonal movements and behaviors that reflect both environmental cues and life-history stages.

Pollock undertake regular horizontal migrations between spawning and feeding areas (ADF&G, 2005). Large spawning aggregations form annually in late winter and early spring, including major groups in the Shelikof Strait and northwestern Unimak Island, with smaller groups in the Shumagin Islands and near Middleton Island (ADF&G, 2005). These fish then migrate toward feeding grounds during summer, with distribution strongly influenced by ontogeny (Bailey, 2000). While their overall range is quite large there is significant patchiness in their distribution as a result of their tendency to school (Bailey, 2000).

Pollock return to the same place to spawn each year - typically occurs in deep indentations or canyons along the continental shelf (although they have been known to spawn in deep water bays as well) where they form large spawning aggregations (Bailey, 2000) (ADF&G, 2005). Eggs deposited between 100 and 400 meters but when they hatch the larvae move toward the surface where they occupy shallower depths—20 to 60 meters—and exhibit diel vertical migration (DVM) (Bailey, 2005). Pollock grow quickly, maturing by age 4 at around 40–45 cm, and can live up to 20 years, reaching lengths of 75 cm (Bailey, 2000). 

Pollock are considered an r-selected species and can occupy an extensive set of habitats (Bailey, 2000) They can be found in benthic, demersal, and pelagic zones depending on age, season, and local conditions (Bailey, 2000). They do appear to prefer temperatures between 2–6°C as adults, but juveniles are known to tolerate a much wider range — up to 12°C (Miyashita, 2004) (Duffy-Anderson, 2003). This flexibility contributes to their success in the variable environments of the North Pacific.

Pollock are mid-level predators. They consume euphausiids, copepods, amphipods, and small fish—sometimes engaging in intense cannibalism, particularly in winter and autumn, when juveniles can make up 80% of stomach contents (Bailey, 2000). Juveniles feed both day and night, largely following the diel cycle of their prey, while adults typically feed during daylight (Miyashita, 2004) although this seems to vary by region (Adams, 2007). This foraging behavior is a key factor in their depth use and movement.

Depth occupancy in pollock is highly structured and age-dependent while also being quite variable. Juveniles exhibit pronounced DVM, likely balancing foraging needs with predation risk—including from cannibalistic adults (Schwartzman, 1994). In the EBS, they tend to remain above the thermocline, in part due to their broader thermal tolerance (Duffy-Anderson, 2003) but also as an cannibalism avoidance strategy as adults typically occupy water below the thermocline (Schwartzman, 1994). Indeed there tends to be strong age based stratification in the EBS (Duffy-Anderson, 2003) but less stratification in the GOA where cannibalism is less of an issue (Adams, 2007). In contrast, adult depth behavior is more variable and influenced by metabolism, body condition, temperature, and food availability. While some studies found little evidence of diel migration in adults (Schwartzman, 1994), others observed vertical movement tied to prey like euphausiids, particularly in spring and summer (Adams, 2007) (Bailey, 2000). In these seasons, adult pollock may rise to within 20 meters of the surface at night in the GOA. During other times, such as November, they remain at greater depths and seem to be relying on different prey (Adams, 2007).

Seasonally pollock are known to occupy shallower waters just prior and just after spawning and this may be a result of both migration to shallower waters to spawn and then a need to quickly regain body condition after spawning (Kooka, 1998). After this the fish will move offshore and into deeper waters (Kooka, 1998) (ADF&G, 2005). Schwartzman (1994) also found that larger biomass schools were associated with shallower waters (<120m) and that average school depth increased with bottom depth, suggesting a dynamic link between aggregation size, depth, and oceanography.

Taken together, adult pollock exhibit a wide behavioral range: they may be demersal, pelagic, vertically migrating, or stationary at depth, depending on season, temperature, food availability, body condition, and intra-species dynamics. This variability is key in understanding their ecological role and the challenges of modeling their distribution and behavior.

Bailey, K. M., Quinn, T. J., Bentzen, R., & Grant, W. S. (1999). Population Structure and Dynamics of Walleye Pollock, Theragra chalcogramma. In _Advances in Marine Biology_ (Vol. 37, pp. 179–255). Elsevier. [https://doi.org/10.1016/S0065-2881(08)60429-0](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0065-2881\(08\)60429-0)

Adams, C. F. (2007) *Physical and Biological Factors Affecting the Diel Vertical Migration of Walleye Pollock*

Duffy-Anderson, J. T., Ciannelli, L., Honkalehto, T., Bailey, K. M., Sogard, S. M., Springer, A. M., & Buckley, T. (2003). _Distribution of age-1 and age-2 walleye pollock in the Gulf of Alaska and eastern Bering Sea: Sources of variation and implications for higher trophic levels_.

Miyashita, K., Tetsumura, K., Honda, S., Oshima, T., Kawabe, R., & Sasaki, K. (2004). Diel changes in vertical distribution patterns of zooplankton and walleye pollock ( _Theragra chalcogramma_ ) off the Pacific coast of eastern Hokkaido, Japan, estimated by the volume back scattering strength (Sv) difference method. _Fisheries Oceanography_, _13_(s1), 99–110. [https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2419.2004.00313.x](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2419.2004.00313.x)

Alaska Department of Fish and Game (2005). _Commercial fisheries of Alaska_.

Kooka, K., Takatsu, T., Kamei, Y., Nakatani, T., & Takahashi, T. (1998) *Vertical Distribution and Prey of Walleye Pollock in the Northern Japan Sea*. In *Fisheries Science*, *64(5)*, 686-693.

Swartzman, G., Stuetzle, W., Kulman, K., & Powojowski, M. (1994) In *ICES Journal of Marine Science*, *51*, 481-492