#chinook #depth #research 
### ToDo

**Next Step:** understand the social economic complications of bycatch mitigation

- [ ] Update the paper with the anti-diurnal pattern you found
- [x] Get a review from folks
- [ ] How do pollock fishermen fish?
	- [ ] Check out the pollock fishing data - [[Trawl Catcher Vessel Profiles.pdf]]
		- [ ] Can we get the actual locations they are fishing?
		- [ ] Is there any info on how deep? 
	- [ ] Check out the bycatch data 
		- [ ] Can we sort out where the bycatch is happening? Maybe get some confirmation of the modeling? 
	- [ ] If I could give advice right now what would it be?
		- [ ] Perhaps just time of day is enough? 
- [ ] Is there any research on walleye pollock depth occupancy?
### Addressing Comments

Alright I think the first comment here is really about me jumping into the walleye pollock fishery too fast. I'm not looking at bycatch in general. So let's do a review of bycatch in general with an aim to introduce folks to bycatch issues at large - something that would be good for us to do in general. 

### The Background on Bycatch Issues Writ Large

Overall [[Squires et al. - 2021 - Mitigating Bycatch Novel Insights to Multidiscipl.pdf]] is great in the sense that it goes over how to organize and think about bycatch mitigation strategies, but it doesn't really get into how to think about why you want to avoid bycatch in the first place and very briefly explores how you'd measure the good or bad impacts that come along with it. 

[[By_Catch_Problems_and_Solutions.pdf]] is great for talking through the kinds of bycatch, why it happens, and why it's an issue. 

- Definition of bycatch
- History of bycatch (i.e. why it came into the scene)
- Reasons for why it was/is happening
- All the ways it's been determined to cause issues
- Kinds of goals
- Kinds of incentives (for both coming up with new strategies and keeping those strategies in play)
- Strategies
	- Process
	- Technology
- The play of information in all of this

I think the thing is to throw in some examples in each of these cases (or rather say - this is who is using what)

Then I can drop straight into the walleye pollock problem being X, Y, and Z in terms of the classification scheme above. 

The point of this blurb is really going to be to allow anyone to put their specific bycatch issue into context (and then through the context see wha else they can look into/are missing)

- I definitely need to start all of this with a definition of bycatch (and perhaps some history on how that has changed)
- Then the reasons for bycatch in the first place (why it happens and why people discard and the like)
- A little history would be nice here honestly
- Can also get into the classifications of how bycatch comes about (you need to know these kinds of things to deal with bycatch)
	- spatial
	- temporal
	- level of control
	- rare or common
	- predictability
	- ecological origin of the bycatch
	- level and type of impact
	- legal and economic considerations
- Then get into why this is harmful
- Dealing with bycatch comes in four forms (according to the MH)
	- Avoidance
	- Mitigation
		- Reduction in effort vs reduction in unselectivity [[By_Catch_Problems_and_Solutions.pdf]]
	- Restoration
	- Offsets 
- *Understanding the public good that comes out of this is one gap in my understanding right now*
- Where the first two are really the only ones that deal with "bycatch avoidance and mitigation"
- From there there are four ways (broadly speaking) of driving avoidance or mitigation
	- Private solutions
	- Direct regulation
	- Incentives
	- and Hybrid (which is more or less regulation combined with incentives - i.e. incentives only show up at a point)
- Each of these has its various benefits and disadvantages and largely deal with the degree of heterogeneity implicit in the fleet that's being dealt with
- But out of these have come a lot of different strategies for reducing bycatch (**fill this out**)
	- Process
	- Technology
- The important thing here is to appreciate this hierarchy of goals -> drivers -> solutions.
- But solutions can only be informed by information and so there is a great deal of interesting stuff to say about where information comes from and how folks build solutions
- *What we want to get it as that information is key in all of these cases*

I definitely need to include some notion of what's required to actually come up with a solution and then what's required to incentivize finding solutions and then incentivize using those solutions. 

One thing that's somewhat unclear to me is how to represent all of this succinctly but meaningfully. I'm getting the sense that throwing a few specific examples may be a good idea. 

What's missing right now very clearly are the outcomes and impacts side of things. 

I also think it's worth putting this as the "potentials" of bycatch issues as obviously if I write something on the state of bycatch _right now_ I can't reuse the text in a few years...

Components of our background
- Define bycatch
- There is an inclusion of habitat impact [[Squires et al. - 2021 - Mitigating Bycatch Novel Insights to Multidiscipl.pdf]]
- Bycatch divides into "inconvenient" and "forbidden"
- Conservation biology mitigation hierarchy [[Squires et al. - 2021 - Mitigating Bycatch Novel Insights to Multidiscipl.pdf]]
- Four regulatory categories for bycatch mitigation
	- private, direct regulation, incentive, and hybrid
- bycatch mitigation is highly dependent on the context [[Squires et al. - 2021 - Mitigating Bycatch Novel Insights to Multidiscipl.pdf]]
- What we're doing goes toward the avoidance category [[Squires et al. - 2021 - Mitigating Bycatch Novel Insights to Multidiscipl.pdf]]
	- It would be useful to outline these categories **Indeed this is actually a pretty interesting thing to introduce early on**
- A nice list of current avoidance strategies [[Squires et al. - 2021 - Mitigating Bycatch Novel Insights to Multidiscipl.pdf]]
- Or it may fall into selectivity... 
- "The NNL objective can also lower social welfare if it restricts target catch to such an amount that the foregone social benefits out-weigh the social benefits of bycatch mitigation to NNL." [[Squires et al. - 2021 - Mitigating Bycatch Novel Insights to Multidiscipl.pdf]]
- Least cost bycatch reduction [[Squires et al. - 2021 - Mitigating Bycatch Novel Insights to Multidiscipl.pdf]]
- So there are the steps of the conservation hierarchy and then there are the basic regulatory approaches (and we should go through these as well)
	- Private solutions
	- Direct regulation
	- Incentive-based measures
	- Hybrid solutions
- "Sundown sets" - what are these? Seems like this a cool and relevant example to what we're doing or at least are suggesting.
- Performance vs Process [[Squires et al. - 2021 - Mitigating Bycatch Novel Insights to Multidiscipl.pdf]]
- Deposit refund system for "ghost gear" [[Squires et al. - 2021 - Mitigating Bycatch Novel Insights to Multidiscipl.pdf]] - that's pretty cool!
- There are already examples of fishermen deploying nets at different times based on their own knowledge to try and avoid bycatch [[Squires et al. - 2021 - Mitigating Bycatch Novel Insights to Multidiscipl.pdf]]
- Alternative livelihoods as a bycatch reduction strategy [[Squires et al. - 2021 - Mitigating Bycatch Novel Insights to Multidiscipl.pdf]]
- "Thus direct regulation does not impose responsibility upon the producers for any bycatch that might occur despite compliance with those regulations" [[Squires et al. - 2021 - Mitigating Bycatch Novel Insights to Multidiscipl.pdf]]
- "In some instances, a large psychological effect can crowd out the economically incentivized behavior." [[Squires et al. - 2021 - Mitigating Bycatch Novel Insights to Multidiscipl.pdf]]
- Transboundary bycatch
- Who actually knows more? The management or the producers? [[Squires et al. - 2021 - Mitigating Bycatch Novel Insights to Multidiscipl.pdf]]
	- The need for at sea monitoring in many cases
- Hawaii Turtle Watch program [[Squires et al. - 2021 - Mitigating Bycatch Novel Insights to Multidiscipl.pdf]]
- Producers tend to invent worse technology then could exist [[Squires et al. - 2021 - Mitigating Bycatch Novel Insights to Multidiscipl.pdf]]

#### Outcomes of Bycatch Itself

- Impacts on long lived species [[By_Catch_Problems_and_Solutions.pdf]]
- Impacts on food chains [[By_Catch_Problems_and_Solutions.pdf]]
- Waste of protein [[By_Catch_Problems_and_Solutions.pdf]]
- Conflicts between fishermen [[By_Catch_Problems_and_Solutions.pdf]] and different managed stocks effectively 
- Level of take unsustainable for bycatch species [[By_Catch_Problems_and_Solutions.pdf]]
	- That's us!
- Same species bycatch (juveniles or big ole fish) [[By_Catch_Problems_and_Solutions.pdf]]
- It generally just makes management a huge headache [[By_Catch_Problems_and_Solutions.pdf]]
- Just the sheer amount of bycatch is rather useful to talk about... 
- Prohibited species and high grading [[By_Catch_Problems_and_Solutions.pdf]]

- Reasons for bycatch [[By_Catch_Problems_and_Solutions.pdf]]
	- Fish caught are of the wrong species, size or sex, or the ®sh are damaged. · Fish are incompatible with the rest of the catch (from the point of view of storage). · Fish are poisonous. · Fish spoil rapidly (i.e. before it is brought on board). · Lack of space on board. · High grading. · Quotas reached. · The catch was of prohibited species, in prohibited season or ®shing ground, or with prohibited gear. 

- Interesting note on how selectivity used to apply just to sizes of a specific species and now has much broader usage [[By_Catch_Problems_and_Solutions.pdf]]

- Bycatch is throwing stuff overboard (for usually economic reasons) and the retention of stuff you weren't targeting. 
- "Of particular interest is the case of Norway, which has adopted a policy of No discards'. Fishers are not allowed to discard anything caught in the net, and that forces them to ®sh selectively by avoiding periods, areas or times of the day with high by-catches, and by developing technology that contributes to that goal. Norway is the only country that has prohibited discards by law and ®shermen are obliged to bring all their catch ashore" [[By_Catch_Problems_and_Solutions.pdf]]
- Some cool bycatch reduction strategies for the shrimp/prawn trawls [[By_Catch_Problems_and_Solutions.pdf]]
#### Social Benefits, Issues, and Complexities in Bycatch Mitigation

