### Outline

- What are time/area closures?
- Why time/area closures?
- What kinds of time/area closures are there? How do they differ?
	- event triggered vs periodic vs spatial only
	- voluntary vs top down (managed)
- Note the challenges in defining these
	- Need to understand the life history, habitat use habits, and movement behavior and migrations(?)
	- All gear types? Just some gear types?
	- What is the spatial extent required? What is the temporal extent? 
	- What data is used for this? (Fisheries dependent vs independent)
	- Is there enough spatial patterning in the fish/aggregations to make the closure worth it/make any sense
	- There can be challenges in sorting out what kinds of unintended consequences are going to arise
- Note the challenges in getting engagement
	- Need to be able to track whether boats are complying with closures
	- Need to get the data in the first place and update it quickly enough
	- For voluntary data how do you balance fishers trying to keep their operations private (for competitive reasons) with the need to keep fisheries open
	- Often it is harder restrictions being threatened that bring folks into the fold
- Note the evidence for their benefit, but also how this stuff gets tricky and often time the implementation removes the data needed to evaluate the benefit

### Bullets

- Time/area closures 

### Pulled from Papers
- Why temporary spatial closures?
	- Quotas are a type of catch management measure that limit the total number of species that can be taken in a fishery, but this type of measure does not improve fishing selectivity. Typical effort-based management measures (e.g. bag limits or trip limits) also cannot address issues of fishing selectivity. However, operational measures (i.e. how and where fishing occurs) can be used for this purpose. (Dunn, 2011)
	- Targeted spatio-temporal fishery closures can increase fishing selectivity by prohibiting fishing in areas with high by-catch to catch ratios and are a possible solution open to managers (Dunn, 2011)
	- The current movement towards marine spatial planning (MSP) offers an important framework and impetus to examine how we manage fisheries spatially. (Dunn, 2011)
	- However, they have also been criticized as ineffective, often due to the mismatch between the spatial and temporal scales on which closures are drawn vs. the scales on which resource users and ecological processes operate (Woods, 2017)
	- When the species are similar there are inherent difficulties in modifying gear to avoid bycatch (Gauvin, 1995)
	- The nature of multispecies fisheries like the New England groundfish fishery is such that healthy and depleted stocks co-exist, which can result in the catch of stocks with very large and very small quotas simultaneously. (Dunn, 2014) (choke stocks)
	- After the passing of Amendment 16, minimum size limit regulations are the only allowable regulatory discard in the FMP. Catch of any ‘allocated’ species, including such juvenile discards, are now counted against the sector’s quota. Thus, juvenile catch and market discards (e.g. any fish that is unmarketable due to depredation by sharks, rotting, gear damage, etc.) now have a double cost, as the fishermen are unable to reap a profit from the catch and it also counts against the sector’s quota. (Dunn, 2014)
	- There are worldwide calls to expand spatial protections for such species, including marine protected areas (MPAs), shark sanctuaries, and other designations; however, there are a number of challenges to delineating appropriate locations and boundaries that will tangibly enhance conservation (Crear, 2021)
- How to create this closures
	- Thus, the use of marine spatio-temporal closures to reduce by-catch should be based on clearly quantifiable relationships to behaviours (e.g. foraging) or physiology (Dunn, 2011)
	- Persistent habitat usage, the use of one area by resident species throughout multiple life history stages, was discussed previously. Dynamic or ephemeral habitat usage will require different management approaches. Protection of seasonal habitat usage has also been a common objective of fisheries closures, though the use of by-catch data to focus such time/area closures has been limited. (Dunn, 2011)
	- Migration patterns have been incorporated in spatio-temporal management through the use of rolling closures meant to protect the species as they move through particular areas during their migration (Dunn, 2011) **Rolling Closures!**
	- By-catch of animals engaged in episodic resource usage (i.e. the targeting of static habitats by opportunistic foragers, or specific ephemeral habitats by specialized consumers including depredation events) can be mitigated through event-triggered closures. (Dunn, 2011) **Event Triggered Closures**
		- to close marine fisheries when a catch or by-catch quota have been reached (e.g. NOAA 2001; NPFMC 2009).  (Dunn, 2011)
		- Such closures have been voluntarily used to limit juvenile cod by-catch in Scotland, and there is movement to promote similar measures through the Common Fisheries Policy (Dunn, 2011)
	- Similarly, oceanographic correlates of various behavioural states, or life history stages, can be used to delineate and protect such areas. (Dunn, 2011)
	- Oceanographic characterizations of catch rates are even more common (e.g. Bigelow et al. 1999; Seki et al. 2002; Zagaglia et al. 2004) and include a wider variety of variables (e.g. frontal systems, sea surface height or salinity). (Dunn, 2011)
	- The use of oceanographic correlates to create near real-time dynamic closures is proposed, but has not been widely implemented at this point. Sea surface temperature is the basis for a voluntary closure in both the United States (Dunn, 2011)
	- Designing effective bycatch mitigation programmes requires an understanding of life histories of target and non-target species, interactions of fish and fishing gear, effects of spatial and temporal shifts in fishing effort, socio-economic impacts to the fishery, and incentives of fishery participants. (O'Keefe, 2014)
	- significant research about the location and level of bycatch on various spatial and temporal scales is required before implementation (O'Keefe, 2014)
- What kinds?
	- On the temporal side, fisheries closures may be dynamic (i.e. triggered by an event), seasonal or permanent. When a closure is being implemented to mitigate by-catch, the spatial component may be broken down further into three additional questions: (i) how are the by-catch events distributed compared to catch; (ii) are the by-catch events spatially auto-correlated to other catch, by-catch or depredation events (i.e. are you more likely to have a second by-catch event after an initial one); and (iii) are the by-catch events correlated with a spatially explicit oceanographic variable. (Dunn, 2011)
	- DOM includes mechanisms such as spatial real-time fishery closures (RTCs), move-on rules (Woods, 2017)
	- Specifically, such move-on rules provide a distance that fishermen should move, or the amount of time they should wait, to avoid a certain type of catch. (Dunn, 2014)
- How they get implemented
	- The actual implementation of such mechanisms vary widely, from top-down government-sponsored regulations to industry-sponsored voluntary programs, as well as co-management arrangements that fall in-between (Woods, 2017)
	- In top-down orchestrated closures, reported catch data are generally gathered from observer coverage or inspections; in voluntary situations, personal catch data are exchanged for access to larger pools of collective catch data and/or quota (Woods, 2017)
- The move towards more of this
	- Further, decentralized regulation through cooperative and sector-based management is steadily moving the fishing industry towards near real-time dynamic fleet management. Sector or cooperative managers have the ability to transmit information to fishers on a daily, or more frequent, basis. In addition to this, existing VMS and automated alert systems [e.g. automatic identification systems (AIS)] can notify the fishers, government agencies and the sector manager when a boat enters a fishery closure. As such, more complex spatiotemporal delineation of fishery closures (e.g. pelagic, event-triggered and dynamic fishery closures) has become a viable management option. (Dunn, 2011)
	- Dynamic ocean management (DOM) is a promising solution to this mismatch, as it is “management that uses near real-time data to guide the spatial distribution of commercial activities” (Lewison et al., 2015, p. 486). It can theoretically respond faster to changes in the ecosystem than can typical static management schemes, which generally assimilate data on an annual basis (Woods, 2017)
- Challenges
	- First, data must be collected, potentially processed, and finally disseminated on fast time-scales, which may be relatively labour-intensive and costly for both industry participants and managers (Woods, 2017)
	- Second, it often relies on stakeholders and managers to work together to set up a system in which resource use data are shared, requiring negotiation and agreement on the terms of use (Woods, 2017)
	- Finally, although it has a greater potential to match spatiotemporal ecosystem dynamics than static annual closures, some knowledge regarding ecosystem dynamics (e.g. site fidelity or movement patterns) is needed to optimally design the closure system for the purpose at hand (Woods, 2017)
	- Second, although reductions in selectivity may be possible through more permanent time-area closures (Dunn et al., 2011), as Eliasen (2014) suggests, in many cases the modelling necessary to justify and define such closures requires a longer time series of data and cannot yet be accomplished, in part because permanent closures are often not supported by the industry and become politically contentious issue (Woods, 2017)
	- Closures can produce simple and enforceable regulations, but may lead to unintended results. Determining the appropriate closure size or season is difficult and the resulting spatial or temporal scale of closures is often impractical (O'Keefe, 2014)
	- Time/area closures can be effective for reducing bycatch and discards, as experienced in the Kuwait shrimp fishery. However, as demonstrated by the examples of harbour porpoise in the Gulf of Maine, juvenile plaice in the North Sea, and sea lions in New Zealand, unintended ecological results can occur from closures that do not account for the life-history characteristics of the target and non-target species. (O'Keefe, 2014)
	- For Chinook specifically they seem to be somewhat randomly encountered and therefore micro-adjustments of fishing locations is not particularly useful (Gauvin, 1995)
	- Specifically, we determine whether vessels moving away from closed areas (or back towards reopened areas) increase or decrease their likely impact on cod mortality, as measured by the RCII (Needle, 2011)
	- However, Dunn et al. suggest that when the goal is to decrease bycatch or discards, these types of closures may be less useful than other types of closures and are likely to result in coarsely targeted management measures. (Dunn, 2014)
	- While move-on rules are being used, there are no examples of an empirical approach to determining the times or distances employed. (Dunn, 2014) while others rely on expert opinion to draw a polygon around hauls with high bycatch rates (e.g. the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands (BSAI) pollock fishery). Examples like that seen in the BSAI pollock fishery may actually be considered more of a time/area closure, as they do not offer guidance in response to a single event (or encounter), but use a group of events to define an area to be closed
		- It's interesting in that they propose a methodology for move on rules but it depends on data from bad catches. so as your whole system gets better then ability to tell drops. 
		- Of note is the difference found in the time/distance of autocorrelation in juvenile cod catch in this study (1 day and 2.5 km or ~5.725 nmi2) as compared to the rules in place under the Scottish conservation credits program (21 days and 50–225 nmi2) (Dunn, 2014)
	- There are large uncertainties in migration area and period of migratory species (Munehara, 2021)
	- Spatial management for HMS can be challenging due to their highly mobile habits and the dynamic nature of oceanic habitats (Crear, 2021)
	- and the ability to evaluate their continued effectiveness is hampered by a lack of data, especially fishery-dependent data (Crear, 2021)
- Evidence of effectiveness
	- For example, pilot projects indicate that fishers do indeed move from areas of higher to lower concentrations of the bycatch species when given catch information (Woods, 2017)
	- Nonetheless, there exists some limited evidence for reductions in catch of certain species or age classes (Bailey et al., 2010; Holmes et al., 2011; O’Keefe and DeCelles, 2013; O’Keefe et al., 2014), (Woods, 2017)
	- We found that two of the four species, haddock and herring, showed evidence of ecological effectiveness through a reduction in selectivity estimates and catch of entry-aged fish in years with greater numbers of RTCs. However, this effect was only detectable as an interaction with effort in both herring models and the haddock catch model, indicating that the reduction in small-fish susceptibility and catch is only detectable in high-effort years. (Woods, 2017)
	- The programme reportedly saved the participating fleets millions of dollars (US) due to extending fishing seasons that were historically closed due to bycatch (O'Keefe, 2014) (reference to fleet communication) The avoidance programmes have been integrated into fishery management plans allowing Sea State to designate fishery closure areas on a real-time basis
	- The results suggest that some avoidance of cod-rich areas following closures did indeed transpire in the first, third, and fourth quarters of that year, but no firm conclusions can be drawn about the second quarter. It would also appear that there was some movement back towards cod-rich areas following the reopening of RTCs. Consequently, we suggest that the RTCs in 2009 did reduce overall cod mortality while they were closed, but that they may not have had any longer-lasting effect on cod exploitation patterns. (O'Keefe, 2014)
- Examples
	- Today, the Icelandic RTC system applies to nine demersal groundfish species, four pelagic fish species, Norwegian lobster (Nephrops norvegicus), and shrimp (Pandalus borealis)(Schopka, 2007). In most cases, to trigger a closure, catch of a certain size range of the species exceeds a certain percentage of the total catch (e.g. 25% under 55 cm for cod). Closures are generally detected by onboard observers, who subsample and measure the catch in 15–20% of the cod fishery (Little et al., 2015), although other mechanisms are possible. The Icelandic Marine Research Institute (MRI) then has the authority to define a closure area, which must be advertised on radio by the coastguard and the broadcast by the government radio station before the closure takes effect. (Woods, 2017)
	- Shrimp trawling in tropical waters can produce a 10:1 bycatch to shrimp ratio when executed without bycatch reduction measures. Ye et al. (2000) characterized the bycatch to shrimp ratio in the Kuwait shrimp fishery and found seasonal patterns of bycatch to shrimp ratios in inshore vs. offshore waters. They also experimentally compared the non-target species to shrimp catch ratios inside and outside of closed areas using data from a year-round shrimp survey. Areas of Kuwait Bay and within the three mile Exclusive Economic Zone along the coast were closed to shrimp trawling in 1983 (Ye et al., 2000). The comparison of survey catch inside and outside of the closures showed reductions in the non-target species to shrimp ratio in the closure areas, with no difference in the catch rate of shrimp. The study strongly supports the conclusion that the closures effectively reduced bycatch in shrimp trawling, without impacting shrimp catches within the entire Kuwait shrimp fishery. (O'Keefe, 2014)
	- The use of time/area closures failed to reduce the bycatch of harbour porpoises with minimal impacts on the fishing practices of the sink gillnet fishery in the Gulf of Maine (Murray et al., 2000). The high bycatch of harbour porpoises prompted managers to close three regions of the Gulf of Maine in 1994 based on historically high bycatch rates and considerable data on fishing effort. The areas were not effective in reducing bycatch because of the spatial and temporal variation in patterns of the bycatch rate and the displacement of bycatch events to areas outside of the closures. The closure areas focused on the regions that had been historically fished, without considering bycatch events that could occur as a result of effort displacement to areas outside of the closures. (O'Keefe, 2014)
	- A slower growth rate of prerecruits was observed inside the plaice box when compared with outside. Pastoors et al. (2000) hypothesized that the observed slower growth rate of juvenile plaice resulted from density-dependent factors of increased predation and lower food availability, causing increased natural mortality. They inferred an interaction between bottom trawling activities, food availability, and spatial distribution of plaice. Excluding bottom trawling from the plaice box may have adversely affected benthic food assemblage and availability and, therefore, offset the positive effects of reduced discarding. (O'Keefe, 2014)
	- The Sea State programme (Sea State Inc., Seattle, WA, USA) was designed to reduce unintended bycatch in mixed species fisheries in Alaska (Gauvin et al., 1995). The goal of the programme was to use the bycatch rate information from all participants in a fishery to avoid areas with high bycatch. Data were collected from vessels in a real-time manner through satellite communications and conveyed to a third-party organization that analysed bycatch rates. The programme examined the relationship between bycatch rate and location and relayed information on bycatch hotspots back to the active fishing vessels in near real time. (O'Keefe, 2014) Additionally, the programme was not successful in aiding the trawl fisheries avoid the bycatch of Chinook salmon due to the lack of a time/area relationship between target and bycatch
	- “TurtleWatch” to assist in fishery and management decision-making. TurtleWatch utilized fishery-dependent data in combination with environmental data to predict the location of thermal bands where turtles may aggregate. The first TurtleWatch information was available for the first quarter of the 2007 fishing year; however, the fishery did not follow the advice for avoiding specific regions to reduce turtle bycatch. Turtle takes were observed in the advisory area, indicating that the avoidance information was accurate. (O'Keefe, 2014)
	- The programme utilized transmitted observer data to inform the fleet about number and weight of hooked target and bycatch species, locations of gear deployment and retrieval, and fishing effort via e-mail. The information was also relayed to fleet owners and managers who could track individual vessel performance and apply consequential individual “enforcement” measures. During the first 4 years of the programme, fleet participation doubled from 14 to 28 vessels, and by 1999 included all active fishing vessels in the pelagic longline fleet (annual number of permitted vessels ranged from 64 to 74). The fleet was able to successfully target Pacific cod, Greenland turbot, and sablefish while reducing halibut bycatch up to 30% and seabird bycatch by 20% (O'Keefe, 2014)
	- Proposed area closures to reduce bycatch of alosine species (American shad, alewife, and blueback herring) in the US Northwest Atlantic herring and mackerel trawl fisheries prompted the development of a voluntary avoidance system based on the fleet communication of at-sea and port-side observations (O'Keefe, 2014)
	- For example, the Charleston Bump Closed Area (Fig. 1a), implemented in 2001, is closed to the PLL fishery from February through April and was originally designed to reduce bycatch and fishing mortality of undersized swordfish, billfish, and other overfished and protected species within the U.S. PLL fishery (NMFS 2019). The Mid-Atlantic Shark Closed Area (Fig. 1b), implemented in 2005, is closed to the BLL fishery from January through July (with the exception of one vessel that participates in the shark research fishery) to primarily protect juvenile sandbar and dusky sharks from fishing while occupying offshore nursery habitat (Crear, 2021)
- They moved away
	- Perhaps because saithe are also fast swimmers, patchily distributed, and generally elusive to find (Pol et al.,2016), aggregations may exit a closed area before any protection against mortality can be afforded. (Woods, 2017)
- Some additional notes
	- there have been few evaluations of the overall success of bycatch mitigation techniques, other than gear modifications. (O'Keefe, 2014)
	- Time/area closures have been employed as a bycatch reduction strategy for many species; however, the effectiveness of this technique in meeting bycatch reduction objectives has received little attention (O'Keefe, 2014)
	- Incorporating fishers’ knowledge of fishing techniques can aid in designing mitigation programmes that maintain target catch, minimize impacts on the bycatch of other non-targeted species, and reduce negative impacts from shifts in fishing effort. (O'Keefe, 2014)
	- Additionally, some of the case studies emphasized that collaborative programmes, which utilize the skill sets of fishers, scientists, and managers, have been more effective in meeting bycatch reduction objectives. (O'Keefe, 2014)
	- Sector management, whereby fishermen voluntarily formed groups (or ‘sectors’) with pooled allocations based on their historical fishing and managed primarily under a quota, offered an appealing alternative to the ‘common pool’ which retained input controls such as days-at-sea and trip limits. (Dunn, 2014)

Dunn, D. C., Boustany, A. M., & Halpin, P. N. (2011). Spatio‐temporal management of fisheries to reduce by‐catch and increase fishing selectivity. _Fish and Fisheries_, _12_(1), 110–119. [https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-2979.2010.00388.x](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-2979.2010.00388.x)

Woods, P. J., Þór Elvarsson, B., Sigurdsson, T., & Stefánsson, G. (2018). Evaluating the effectiveness of real-time closures for reducing susceptibility of small fish to capture. _ICES Journal of Marine Science_, _75_(1), 298–308. [https://doi.org/10.1093/icesjms/fsx152](https://doi.org/10.1093/icesjms/fsx152)

O’Keefe, C. E., Cadrin, S. X., & Stokesbury, K. D. E. (2014). Evaluating effectiveness of time/area closures, quotas/caps, and fleet communications to reduce fisheries bycatch. _ICES Journal of Marine Science_, _71_(5), 1286–1297. [https://doi.org/10.1093/icesjms/fst063](https://doi.org/10.1093/icesjms/fst063)

_Solving bycatch: Considerations for today and tomorrow ; September 25 - 27, 1995, Seattle, Washington ; [proceedings of the Solving Bycatch Workshop]_. (1996). Solving Bycatch Workshop, Fairbanks, Alaska. University of Alaska, Sea Grant College Program.

Needle, C. L., & Catarino, R. (2011). Evaluating the effect of real-time closures on cod targeting. _ICES Journal of Marine Science_, _68_(8), 1647–1655. [https://doi.org/10.1093/icesjms/fsr092](https://doi.org/10.1093/icesjms/fsr092)

Dunn, D. C., Boustany, A. M., Roberts, J. J., Brazer, E., Sanderson, M., Gardner, B., & Halpin, P. N. (2014). Empirical move‐on rules to inform fishing strategies: A New England case study. _Fish and Fisheries_, _15_(3), 359–375. [https://doi.org/10.1111/faf.12019](https://doi.org/10.1111/faf.12019)

Munehara, M., Kaewnern, M., Noranarttragoon, P., & Matsuishi, T. F. (2021). Simulations of fixed closure and real-time closure to manage migratory fish species for data-limited fisheries. _Ocean & Coastal Management_, _211_, 105736. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ocecoaman.2021.105736](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ocecoaman.2021.105736)

Crear, D. P., Curtis, T. H., Durkee, S. J., & Carlson, J. K. (2021). Highly migratory species predictive spatial modeling (PRiSM): An analytical framework for assessing the performance of spatial fisheries management. _Marine Biology_, _168_(10), 148. [https://doi.org/10.1007/s00227-021-03951-7](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00227-021-03951-7)
